in this video we are going to install
Jenkins on Windows you will learn the
options available to install Jenkins on
Windows the practical part of this video
is to install Jenkins on Windows using
the default installation the only
prerequisite is to have Java installed
on your Windows machine either the Java
Runtime environment JRE or the Java
development kit JDK
I recommend to use Java 8 if possible if
you don't have Java installed yet here
is the link to download and install JDK
8 on windows choose the relevant version
for your 32 or 64-bit Windows machine
will not go into the Java installation
during the practical part of the video
so make sure you are Java eight
installed before you start if you run
Windows 10 you have few options to
install Jenkins there is the default
installation which works on any modern
Windows version will cover this type of
installation during the demo you can
also install windows subsystem for Linux
which allows to run linux commands
directly on windows here you find the
link to install the windows subsystem
for linux once installed open the bash
shell and follow the instructions to
install jenkins on linux in video 1.5 a
third option is to install jenkins with
docker we will explore this option in
video 1.6 one of the advantages of the
docker installation is that you don't
have to install java as it is already
packaged in the docker image however i
recommend to use the docker installation
only if you run Windows 10 as it is a
little bit fiddly to install docker on
previous Windows versions we will
install Jenkins using the default
installer for Windows this should work
on any modern Windows version in a
nutshell will download the latest
long-term support
LTS version of Jenkins from the official
Jenkins mirrors
open the Installer and follow the
instructions on screen without any
further ado let's install Jenkins on
windows open your favorite browser and
go to mirrors dot Jenkins dot IO select
the LTS release for windows stable
scroll down and click on the latest
available LTS version at the time this
video was recorded it was version 2.80
9.1 download the file and open it this
might take a little while depending on
your internet connection so I am moving
forward to the end of the download once
the Installer is downloaded on your
local drive open it and run it and
follow the instructions on screen select
the destination folder install Jenkins
allow the program to be installed and
wait until the installation ends I'm
moving forward a bit here
now go back to your favorite browser and
head to localhost colon 8080 to see
Jenkins running we are asked to unlock
Jenkins using the temporary
administrator password stored locally
copy the path to the file and open the
file with your favorite editor
copy the temporary password paste it
under administrator password and click
home continue we are now asked to
customize Jenkins by installing plugins
if you know exactly which plugins you
need click on select plugins to install
and choose your plugins otherwise
install the suggested plugins
I recommend this option if you are
starting with Jenkins this takes a
little while depending on your internet
connection so I'm moving forward a bit
until we get to plugins installation
green as a last step we are asked to
create the first admin user enter a
username a strong password
full name and email address and click on
save and finish Jenkins is now set up so
start using it well done
Jenkins is now installed on your system
and ready to be put to work this is the
end of the video where we installed and
setup Jenkins on windows watch the next
video where we'll be installing Jenkins
with Mac OS